#summary Describes the project in general detail
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design

== Introduction ==

This project is an attempt to create an open source clone of the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal_Crossing_(series) Animal Crossing] video game. It will feature complex artificial intelligence, easy access networking, high level crafting, plot, goals, and should be easily extensible.

It should integrate as many features from the original [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal_Crossing Animal Crossing] and [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animal_Crossing:_Wild_World Animal Crossing: Wild World] as possible.


== Expected Included Features (not all inclusive) ==
  # Single player experience
  # Multiplayer experience with up to 4 players locally.
  # Up to 15 Animal Neighbors
  # A General Store
  # Trees that grow fruit on a regular basis
  # Real-time progression (night & day, seasonal)
  # Civic buildings (museum, post office, police station, lighthouse)
  # Travel (other towns and tropical islands)
  # Special visitors (including a musician)
  # Thousands of items.
  # Design capabilities (cloth designs, music, letters)
  # Collection goals (insects, fish, fossils, paintings)
  # Home rating system.
  # Mini games (like the emulated NES Classics)
  # Mini activities (sports day, holidays, snowmen)
  # Birthday celebrations.

== Suggestions (from other people) ==
  #  Sharing of player instances/creations a la Spore (by andrew [http://forum.freegamedev.net/index.php?t=msg&S=4bfa7f8c02fe2ad49f53921324d4efde&th=752&goto=5373#msg_5373 FreeGameDev post])

== General Ideas ==
  # Fabric and clothing design can be customized asymmetrically.
  # Music composition is more complex: able to denote key, time signature, clef, tempo, sharps & flats, note lengths, multiple instruments, and integration into game music (environment and "bootlegs"); I'm thinking implementing this with [http://www.musicmarkup.info/ Music Markup Language (MML)].
  # Since it's the only language I'm familiar with at the moment, [http://www.java.com Java] is the planned language the project will be written in. It might be possible to implement the entire project in Java (excluding the resources such as graphics); I've read a little about the [https://java3d.dev.java.net/ Java3D API]. [http://www.banghowdy.com Bang!Howdy] was implemented in Java3D so it is possible.
  # Deeper character relationships, i.e. dating. Not sure how people would feel about Animal-Human relationships, but irregardless, it could make for some interesting situations.
  # Ability to build other types of buildings; like movie theaters, malls, and such. I found it sad you could do just about nothing from the suggestions given to you from your neighbors.
  # Deciding where to host all the project resources. If this ever takes off, the webhosting services at my university are not sufficient. Currently on Google Code (http://code.google.com/p/openanimalcrossing/)

== Contact Info ==
Email Dorian at [mailto:imaginationac@gmail.com imaginationac@gmail.com]
Use the subject line "Open Animal Crossing: <subject title>" substituting your subject matter with <subject title>.